Question 1)The particular and the three-step process.

So, the first and most obvious question is, what makes for example the table a table and not an elephant. Even tough this bears a lengthy discussion, our first question is only interested up to the part how we understand what is something is only it is, and furthermore what is it that thing which it always is. The former signifies the three-step process; and the latter what we will call a particular.

"Particular" is the name given to the mode of the object when it exists in the "outside" world (or when it exists as itself, if one dislikes dualism). In this mode whatever that particular Particular(for example the table) has, shows or  includes "when is in the world as itself" is considered and/or put in to the description of that thing. It is best to contrast this mode with the mode when the object is called a "universal" (which is in my opinion a more apropriate word then "essence" when said about objects and in shortly i will argue the same for actions or other thing which their essences can be talked about*). When in contrast we talk about a Universal, for example a table(instead of "the" table of Particular), we imply the mode of the object when it exist in the "inner" world(or when it exists as we merely think about it, if one dislikes dualism). Even tough we can represent a table in our minds in any way we like, or in other words we can "think about it" in any way we like; we can still observe that there are certain bounderies where only by them we call something a table and something not a table. So it is by this boundaries the universals represent without mistake what each table one by one is all-together; which is simply a table(or the idea of table, or the table itself, if one is so found of Plato). So by extension of this description, one can also say that it is just a coincidence, whereby a nessecery one, that my idea of table is similiar enough to your idea of table. And it is nessecery because the main structures of how we acquire the essence(which is the brain, discussed below) is very similiar; and also the particulars where we get that essence is also very similiar. This then obviously disagrees with the idea of Platonic forms, which argues that the essence of some group of particulars is unchangeably same and we merely try to "acquire them", rather then "invent" them.

So by this discussion, when objects are one by one themselves, they are talked about as Particulars; and when we only think about or mean certain characteristics of the all objects; or when we "group" them in some terms; or when we simply imply when we say "a table" what we require from any object for them to qualify as a table; we imply the universals.

Now, one interesting discussion is, where those "boundaries", those "characteristics" come from. According to Aristotle they will be discovered by understanding causes and he will call them essences; but how they are discovered by some rational beings are not the same thing as where they actually come from; in other words what is the boundaries for the "boundaries" themselves. Putting aside the Platonic forms, where those forms may or may not exist someplace independently by themselves or may be merely toughs, i argue that those essences only arises in our view of the world by the merit of the computational characteristic of our brain itself. What i say is not just some basic argument about how "we are simply preconditioned to find patterns"; what i argue is that we are preconditioned to view anything and we are always able to and only able to generalise whatever we happened to view. And it is this very easy but complex form of generalisation that we can remember and/or think about anything that we have ever viewed or tough about; and that is why the mode called "universal" exists at all; it is the only way for us to re-create anything at all. And we can only use any form of experience or Particular by re-creation any way, that is why at any time we deal with anything whereby it does not at that time exist as itself for us(like when we are touching or seeing it) we can only deal with universals; and that is also why the forms found in mathematics are of at ultimate generalisation, they can be shown to apply  for many things found in nature, because they are the ultimate generalisations which was made by our computational-brains, and that is because mathematical objects are the things where we use the most minimal amount of Particulars to "view in our minds".

Let's cut this discussion short and move on with other questions, and first explain the three-step process which is asked about.

(Question 1 continued)Aristotle explains how we acquire the particulars themselves, and not the universals, by a three-step process where the steps are (1)sensation, (2) memory and (3) experience.

First, the sensation is where by the merit of our natural capacity to sense and as we by nature actualize them we can "gather information" about a particular we encounter. This part is so natural to living beings such that living beings always prefer to sense than not to, and by sensing we see any difference between an object and when the object is not, and also when an object is or something else. In many animals which those are more developed in terms of reason, according to aristo, from sensation the memory is then produced. This happens when, in our opinion, the same appereance is sensed from many angles, illumination and other differences. This then suffices to momentarily create the memory of the particular. After that, those short term memories which are quite different then the "internal views" discussed above, as the memories of the same particular thing from this time memorized from different "states" combines to an experience. Now, the attentive reader will notice how then it is natural for a combined set of experiences than to form "internal views", which in turn gives universals. But also another attentive reader, with as much strong arguments, may also realize how a single experience can be also enough to form an essence, since in the step connection memories to experience we had to mention "states" which can only mean the internal state of he who has the memory; therefore when he starts gathering memories he already started gaining the internal picturization of the essence of the particular in question.

Both inferences are actually consistent with our argument, as exampled in the fact that a single apperance is also enough to form a memory, albeit a weak one. Same applies for the case from experience to essence; which we should stop now as we started to heavily disagree with aristotle. 

Question 2)Example of each sciences and the case for particulars vs causes.

According to aristotle, where as by the three-step process we aquire the particular, the the causes(what they are is discussed below) are gained by sciences. So what aristotle calls sciences are actually inquires whereby we acquire causes. It is also by this definition aristotle says that for a inquiry to be science it's object has to be. So a science of dragons can not. Those sciences whereby we seek the causes for their own sakes are called theorotical sciences. Physics, mathematics and theology falls in to this category, which actually those are accoring to Aristotle subcategories of the theorotical sciences. Those sciences concern with beings and causes of beings.

After that, there are productive sciences, where we seek the causes of things to produce them, maybe for their usages in other words. The science of shoes for example is a productive science and includes those knowledges required to make better shoes.  The science of electronics, pens and guitars also falls in this category. Engineering for obvious reasons, and art for rather unobvious reasons also fall in this category, where according to Aristotle production of art in a sense also results in a "product" where such thing is for it's use and not for sake of itself.

Finally there are practical sciences which concerns with the "paraxis" or actions; those sciences are concerned with the knowledge or causes of actions and the goodness in them. Politics at societal level, and ethics or the ability to act well in indiviual level are examples of such knowledges.

While particulars are what they are as discussed, causes are answers given to questions involving what'ness. What what it is, what it is made of, what brought it about, and what it is for(https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/aristotle/) are all questions which their answers are the causes. In our own words, causes are reasons for why an object has the form, material, coming and purpose it has to make it the particular particular it is. By this way while the experience enables us to have particulars, only the inquires of sciences enables us to reach to causes; and by this knowledge we would be able to generalize our knowledge to get essences from particulars, at least Aristotle argues as such.

Question 3) Nurse and the doctor.

The experience gained by the repeated sensation of a particular can be put to use by an experience nurse. He can use his experience to cure a patient for example, yet if and only if she has seen this particular particular before. When contrasted with an inexperienced doctor, whereby he has the essence of the ilnesses seen in patients, he may not now which of the knowledges he posses may apply for a particular case. Even tough in such situations the nurse can do a better job and cure the patient; the doctor is more valuable because with his knowledge he can potentialy cure any patient; while such nurse is limited to the previous particulars he has experienced beforehand. It is also by the causes the doctor has, he can explain why the medicines are working, which is essential to produce more knowledge to make more kind of medicines which then in turn be even more "succesfull in curing". So the doctor recieves more respect both by solely for his knowledge on causes, and also for his potential to in turn help even more patient then the nurse.

Question 4) Uniqe human capacity and it's object.

The uniqe capacity, by the merit of it's rational part of the soul, is that we can figure out the essences so we may deduce the causes from the particulars and by extension from their essences. What is meant by this by us is that even tough causes belongs to particulars in each case, those are nevertheless are not independent from the essences we deem those particulars belong to. It should be also noted that for this sentence Aristotle would probably disagree, as he may argue that on the contrary the essences are what belongs to particulars, for example redness has been belonged to a red apple. 

 The object of this uniqe human capacity is intellect, or reason. Let us also note that, what makes humans and only humans be able to "build" experiences from memories is also the intellect, tough wether Aristotle uses this word in the same sense in both cases is of question. By intellect than we are able to get essences. Even tough the writer of this text does not know in what exact way Aristotle thinks we acquire these essences, we argued our own postulate in the answer of Question 1.


Question 5) Categories vs Ways of being.

The categories of being are the categories which all kind of beings, both an apple and redness of an apple or the red itself will belong to. So any being will as itself will gain from some categories; and also those gaing by themselves will reside again in some categories. What is meant by this is while a "wingless, two-footed animal" will be determined by the category of quality by it's winglessness and by the category of quantity by it's count of foots; winglessness and two-footedness themselves will reside in the categories quality and quantity respectively. It is also by this that the "animal" of the previous example will itself be in the category of substance; which then we say all other categories other than substance is rooted in substance as winglessness will not be a being by itself, or in other words will not be said to be by itself.

By that then the Ways of being will be two-fold; the being as potential and the being as actual. While an animal has the quality of winglessness actually; a knife may has the quality of being sharp only potentially when it is in need of being sharpened by a blacksmith. So by this description, a being is first said to be in some category or by extension of it's predicates said to gain from some category; and then it can be discussed in what way it is in that category or it gains from that category. First comes the red from quality, and then you discuss in what way such thing is red.

For completeness, here are the categories Aristotle tought to be enough to describe being in all aspects when combined; Substance, Quality, Quantity, Relation, Place, Time, Position, State, Doing and Undergoing.

Question 6) Second and First Actualities and Potentialities.

Interestingly enough, Aristotle had to make some distinction between the last two categories, Doing and Undergoing, and the rest. What he seemingly realized was that a being could said to be doing and undergoing, both in potantially and actually, only after it belonged actually to other categories. So for a being to exercise(do and undergo) it's actualities; it first needs to have the potentialities of these actualities and that is of no problem. But to exercise those potentialities, it first needs some other actualities from other categories. So for each case only from the actualities of other categories things can have the potentiality to exercise some things, so those latter potentialty and actualities are "anchored" in the former ones.

So by this distinction, those potentialities and actualities from the first eight categories are called First potentialities and actualities, respectively. So first a knife, maybe by the merit of it material, has the potentiality to be sharp(by Quality). But then it immediately is sharp, which by this actual sharpness from Quality the knife gain the potentiality to cut from Doing. So we call potentialities from Doing and Undergoing the second potentialities, as they almost always seem to come to be later. And then, the knife will at some point actually cut, which is by the same reasons said to be the second actuality.

Lastly it should be note Aristotle may have argued that the first actuality and second potentiality will almost always will be the same, that latter will always be when the former is; but we will content with saying that even only by the fact that those two will belong two different categories one can say that in no case they will be the same.

Question 7) The case for doing and undergoing.

Almost always, for some being to be doing, another being will be undergoing. As doing nessecerily implies a doer and undergoer and undergoing implies an undergoes and a doer; in the former case an undergoing will also be by the undergoer and in the latter case a doing will also be by the doer. So the same "activity" will while for a substance be from Doing, for another substance the same activity will be from Undergoing, and vice versa. By this argument, whilte a teacher will be teaching from Doing, a student will be learning from Undergoing.

So while by this line of tough doing and undergoing will describe the same set of events, or broadly speaking set of beings, from different perspectives; they are nevertheless not in any way the same thing. This can be immediadetly seen by that the potantialities for teaching and learning will definetely will be different, and also the actualities will themselves too will be completely different, one is teaching and the other is learning. The actuality of undergoes will be for the for the undergoer itself and will not in any way for the doer; the doer will simply participate in the same activity.The appeared dilemma only rises from seeming nessecity for doing to be another must be undergoing and vice versa, but this in no way would mean they are the samething as themselves.

todo: argue whatever isnt an object is an action and is just implies a relation between objects and in that sense is no different than any other objects for us. By this the "input set" is simply extended to our hormones and or recurrent neurons.

Final Note 8)
Before finishing, let us in short argue the (*) mark and eloborate on our discussion of universals. While it is somewhat easy to identify universals about objects, one may be confused about essences of those things which are not material objects, like justice and honour, and like love and fear, and also like war and study. But by how we defined how universals get invented, we can argue on the same line that whenever we observe someone study, or in any way reminded the act of study; we again invent a picture of it in your minds which in no means any different then how we imagine a table in our minds. It is a trivial difference that in the latter case we can actually visualize it and in the former we can't; and this trivial difference is simply because the first time we experience a table(or what we will later decide to group under the universal of table) we experience it by visual whereas the first time we experience a war, not necceserily personally, we experience it by some means other than visual. In that sense things are either objects, or they are born by the relation between objects. War for example can be easily experienced by us in relation to other universals we already experienced before, like death and violence. Violence in turn may be experienced first time with it's relation to fighting, which in turn it's relation to fists which then in turn it's relation to hands; where hands are material objects so we can experience them by their own. It is also case that this relation can be circular, as hands can also be at some later point experienced in relation with war and then this particular relation would be have strengthened. 

So our argument says that anything will be almost always experienced with it's relation to some other thing experienced before, and those first things experienced are experienced with senses and they are material objects. And this relation is not necceserily directed, as those connections may form circles and strengthen our understanding of things.

By intellect we figure the essence so we may move to causes.
Using the term "gains" when talking about categories.




