Among these main takes from book 7 and 10, we can see that they both complenet eachother nicely. Complementing, in the context of the different aims and concerns each holds. Also at many times they are pointing to the same thing, or giving synonomous accounts.

Let's take each element from 10 and place it in to book 7, as book 10 is the practical one and we expect book 10 to be either agree with 7 or not, and not the other way around.

10.1 corresponts to 7.5, tough they do not contradict as Aristotle never made it sure that pleasure is the best good. 10.1 is in a sence continoun of book 7 from 7.5, as 7.5 was the "low point" of book 7 in terms of it was the closest part to an ethical concilus. It is structually very natural to book 10 to start from this point, only to take the treatment to a different, practical direction.

10.2 is a simple argument in its own account in book 10.

10.3 is a recurring theme both in book 7 and 10, corresponding to 7.2.

10.4 corresponds both to 7.1 and 7.8. 

In 7.1, he divides pleasures from a theorotical perspective, a divide that is also reached in book 10 by ethical means. In the former case he use the fact that some pleasures stems from a natural state while others stem from replenishment to a natural state. Those stemming from a natural state corresponds to pleasures of an excellent person, those which are replenishment are plesurable to people in certain conditions ergo conditional pleasures.

For 7.8, 7.8 actually froms the theorotical background for 10.4, as he explains in 7.8 that why people pursue different pleasures which is the same thing as some pleasures of different people differ. He gives the explanation that life is itself a suffering, and suffering causes deficiency in natural state which at different cases call the need of different pleasures.

10.5 corresponts to 7.3, but with a twist. This time there is indeed an apparent disagreement or unclearness which we will investigate.

10.6 is the continouation of 10.4.

10.7 is the conitonuation of 10.1 and there is an apparent contradiction which we will investigate.

10.8 and onward book 10 starts a new description of the pleasures, and there are two contradictions raising from this main point of book 10, second being in 10.10, which both of these contradictions we will investigate.

10.11 returns to the idea of continous pleasure from 7.11, which this time taken on hand with the new description of pleasure in 10.8

10.12 through 10.14 again reitrates the ideas of 7.7-9. This time again with the new found ability to be able to rank pleasures. 

So we conclude that, expect for these five conflicts than we need to investigate, both accounts throughly agree with each other and to show total agreement we will explain those five conflicts as best as we can. In fact, 2 of those 5 conflicts, first and  third, are not conflict between book 7 and book 10, but conflicts in their respective books themselves. Let's list those conflicts.

1) Aristotle both holds that all pleasures are energia and ends, yet immedeately follow with that unconditional pleasures have something else as end.

2) What determines when pleasure occurs by an activity, does it occur because we perceive it, or does it occur because the activity is unimpeeded. He gives the precedence to latter in book 7, yet implies former in book 10.

3) How can actions be choice-worthy even without pleasures. This conflict is also doubly important as the related argument was given to discard pleasures as the best good.

4) How can pleasure completes an activty as was said in book 10, yet we know that activities proper are already complete at each case.

5) While in book 7 we took genus of pleasure to be activity, in book 10 we say pleasures and activites are competely different, even tough one always acompanies another.

Let's take head on these disputes one by one.

1) This conflict is actually cosely related to conflict 5. There is a peculiar double treatment going on here. While Aristotle holds that pleasures are energia he speaks correct. At each time the feeling of pleasure achieves its end, and pleasures are certainly for themselves, as he also says in book 10 that, no one asks one why do he pursue pleasure, as pleasure is pursued for its own sake. But that doesnt exlude that the activty the pleasure stems from may be a process itself. And Aristotle may be talking about such an end when puts that "conditonally good pleasures has something else as ends. This approach particularly makes sense, condiering that he already established that such pleasures are connected to processes in each case, as they are replenishments/motions going to the natural state.

So this this end, we hold that Aristotle simlpy had not yet distinguished between pleasures and activities, and wording consequesntly fails. We will further eloborate this point in conflict 5.

2) This point is peculiar. Bostock gives a good account of this in his paper, which we will use for help. In replenishment theory of Platon, the perception determines wether the act is pleasours. In Aristotle, tough, it is wether the act is impeded or not. If it is unimpeded, then consequesntly there is pleasure going on in mind. As Aristotle himself puts that the pleasure can not be happen in body.

As Bostock puts it,  what is going on in mind is that the perception of replenishment. For example while we are drinking water when thirsty. While the replenishment happens in the body, the perception of it happens in the mind. And as one is drinking, if his senses are in good condition he will perceive it. So he argues that what is being enjoyed is not the replenishment itself, but in the touch of cold water on the tongue, the taste of the drink, and the perception that the drink is doing one a good. So, as was said, the pleasure lies in the perception itself.

But this implies that, only if the activity is unimpeeded we can perceieve those things, so at each case unimpeedness preceedes the perception. While giving proper care to theorotical inquiry in book 7, Aristotle succesfully identifies the correct diferentia as unimpeedness. This is also in accord with the general idea that pleasures complements activities, if the differentia was to be perceieved, how could we argue that pleasures do indeed completes activities in the objective world. The whole equation would be limites to our minds; but with this succesfull differentia of impeednes Aristotle implies that the perception is just the mere but nessecery conclusion of such an unimpeeded activity.

So by definition, unimpeeded activity borns pleasure, and it is up to the perceiever to perceive it to engage in that pleasure. Tough the conflicts further nullifies when we also impose on to Aristotle that, he may had already tought that in each case person in question will necceserily perceive the action, as -quoting Bostock- "Nothing will count as an activity unless the person in question is always aware that he is engaged in that activity, when he is."

So as was said in book 10, the pleasure can not be defined as a replenishment for these exact reasons. And unimpeedness precedes perception, which in turn already implies perception.

3) Even tough in the summary of the related part, we dismissed the seaming conflict saying that such was only a shot at guiding the reader in a argumentitive sense, such an approach is really missing a proper explanation.

The conflict arises from the fact that, while on one hand Aristotle insists that pleasure completes an activity, and he walk along the lines that pleasure is a neccesity for us to choice an action over another; he somehow suddently excludes pleasure from the "choiceworthyness" of some actions. Would we really, as he says, "chooce them even if no pleasure resulted from them".

We will argue in the final part of this essay that pleasures and actions are two sides of the same sword, and pleasure is a neccesery instrinctive force for us to move toward action rather than inaction. 

We argue that Aristotle is mistaken here, and his idea comes from the prior parts of the NE, where we held that actions were done for their own sakes. So as we argued, the conflincting idea is borrowed from these prior parts to remind us that pleasured by themselves can not occupy the best good, furthermore pleasures are grounded in activities so the latter is choiceworthy without the former, while the tersi is not true.

This tough, does not actually contradict with our account, tough only if we "interpret hard enough".

The import is that, the idea that "activities nesscesitates pleasures" does not work the other way around, it does not cause activities to be undefined without proper pleasures, tough pleasures are indeed undefined without proper activities. The fact that there is always one when the other is something else. Even Aristotle points this out, immediately after the problematic passage: "If these [activities] entails necceserily entails pleasure, it makes no difference". And certainly such is the case.

Adding pleasure to an action does not make it "more choice worthy" per se, as we said in book 1 that we do actions for themselves and not for something else. So we do not do actions to "get pleasure" or at least "getting pleasure" is not what we differ good action from bad action, so adding pleasure to it simply helps us "actualize" a potentiality in to an action, yet it does not make that action more "choice worthy". The error here stems from the double use of the word "choice worthy". On one hand we use it to imply that a particular action is good and good to act; yet on the one hand we use it to imply that a we prefer to choice an action over another action. Former implies wether that action is a good, and letter simply implies wether we prefer to do that action.

From this than it can and will be said that, isn't the goodness of the action enough to exercise it? Well, this is why we and aristotle gives a special place to pleasure, as he says, "people deliberately choose pleasent things and avoid painful ones". Even tough we do not to actions for the sake of the pleasure it brings, otherwise everything would be for pleasure and pleasure would be the good; practically speaking pleasure simply encourages us to do these actions where we already deemed them to be a good and pleasure is no different, a good and not the good.


So only from the perspective of deliberate choice the pleasure is needed for an action, but here aristotle simplies means the "choice worthyness" of an action, and not wether "one would choice such an action". Either a poor wording on his side, or a poor initial interpretation by our side.


4) How can pleasure completes an activty as was said in book 10, yet we know that activities proper are already complete at each case.

As in the first sentence of the related part, he says seeing is at each case complete, which also goes by the definition of energia. Yet immedeately on the following sentence, he says pleasure completes seeing.

Here, we will use the help of Bostock again. The solution may be as simple as that, in the former case Aristotle means completeness in form, while on the latter he means perfection. And infact Bostock, after offering it, rejects this view on the grounds that, Aristotle would surely noticed the shift in meaning and would have used a different word. He goes on to argue that, maybe Aristotle tought the latter implies the former, as perfection in the sense of total completeness can not be without completeness in form.

I hold this conviction to be true, adding that Aristotle may have noticed it in fact, and tought that the shift in context was enough of an indication of the shift in meaning.

Similiar to the case in the conflict 3, the completeness in the letter sense implies goodness. An activity is better, as was already said many times before and aspecially in the passages relating to Eudoxus, adding pleasure to an activity makes it better. And since what is not complete is not good, being better also means being more complete. Pleasure perfects the activiity as far as its relation to good concerns.

What kind of perfection is this tough? Since pleasure stems when the object and subject of the activity are in good condition, the usage of "complete" in sense of "perfection" means, as Bostock puts it, when (for building) the material is perfect, the builder is skillfull, the design is excellent and all other conditions are ideal.

The catch is tough, none of these matters when the activity itself is impeeded, and for an activity to not be impeeded it needs completenes of form. This is why perfection or total completeness prerequisietes complenetess of form.

This view, tough may born even a lengthier conflict, as follows: we just said an activity requires a completeness of form, but processes are not complete, then how can processes cause pleasure.

This was a question we tried to avoid throughout the text, as we argue the account of Aristotle too clear for this to be a problem, that Aristotle in many places gives example of processes giving pleasure, like building, writing, calculating and so on. 

The easiest answer, and the one we can give with the minimal amount of assumptions, as ocham's razor puts it, is as follows.


A fuller account comes from Francisco J. Gonzalez in his paper, and in a footnote actually. First and foremost, remember Aristotle said clearly that the pleasures stem by a replenishment/processes are only conditionally good pleasures. So what we say should and will be in accord with this.

What we take pleasure in such procsses, Gonzales puts, is not the motion itself but some activity accompaniying the motion. And this activity is our perception of the motion, as perception are already said to be complete in form, an energia. "If something like eating is pleasurable, this is only because the perception accompanying it is pleasurable".

And the primary condition of the accompanying activity to be pleasurable for first it to be complete, which perception is, and secondly for it to be perfect and its obejct to be perfect. So when the building materials are perfect and the builder is skilled, there will be pleasure on the perception of sight of a flat wall, sight of a well-calculated plan, and tought of a grand temple going up. Yet thirdly, it should only be when the motion is unimpeeded, so it must be such a perception which depends on the motion itself. And this is only possible if the accompaniyng activity is us actively pursuing the pleasure through our senses; we choose to atent to it rather than not to.

And when we say, such pleasures are only conditionally good, because they are " only pleasurable throught its relation to the activity of the perception". When the perception ceases, for example when the state is restored to its natural state and we no longer give attention to the plan or the wall but the whole temple, the pleasure from building diminishes and no longer is. 

Even tough this account seems similiar to Landazuri, there is a subtle difference. In arguments in line with Landazuri, these activities accompaniyng the motion is taken to be distinct parts of the motion where each is whole in its way, like a note being played, or stones being melted. In our account however, inspired by Gonzalez, we signify a state being restored, where each case we are attentive to this restoration by the context we occupy, where the word context will appear properly in the final part of our essay. 

In short, we try to emphasize the fact that, such uncoditionally good pleasures necceserily enjoyed by some acompanied activities, where activities themselves will be diminished at the motion completes. For Landazuri such is not the case, for our account we give that the activity is the active participation in perception of the motion, rather than simply being affected by its perfectness.

Let's cease the argument now.





5) While in book 7 we took genus of pleasure to be activity, in book 10 we say pleasures and activites are competely different, even tough one always acompanies another. So, can we identify a coherence, and decide which perspective Aristotle holds fully?

For this part, Landazuri explains it the best, and the most definite.

He draws attention to the twofold manifestation of an activity, like a double edge sword as we said before, whatever going in the outside at what end, and the necesery interpration of it inside on the other hand.

To this end, he puts that while energia is the human action as a whole, it is composed of both what is done and also how it is felt.

This is very much related to the concept of doing and undergoing giving the same occasion yet describing it from the different perspectives. While an activity is a doing for the person in question, he also by definition undergoes something, and what this something is can be given as the feeling, the pleasure, as Landazuri puts it, "the feeling of the concious activity". This is very much in accord with what we said pleasure is a concious activity after all, in conflict 4.

So in this light, book 7 is right in calling pleasure an activity, it stems from an activity as much as undergoing stems from a doing, while it is itself an activity; the two are inseperable. While book 10, the account finally reaches its fullness, as the undergoing is at least in tongue seperated from the doing and anayzed in light of it.

And this is, at the end of our part of essay on Aristotle, the true metaphyiscal foundation which pleasure stands on.

Now that we have finally tried to resolve some conflicts arising from the case, and throughly walked over what are pleasures from an Aristotilian sense, let's finally give our own distinct account on it.

One dicussion i feel is absent throught the work, tough it is a rather modern approach that we would not blame Aristotle for it. It is the neccesity of the context in undergoing the pleasure.

For example sex, does it stem from the perception that we deemed worthy to have babiews by a cross-gender; or does it stem from the feel of touch and kiss and penis?
In LAndazuri's account he uses these two concepts almost interchangebly, without ever mentionong, nonealone deciding, wether one spawns the other, in the sense that wether we perceive that our thirst has ended by the means of cold water on our tongue; or do we conciously know that we are curently finishing our thirst and the cold water on our tongue only acts as an assurance; as in the case of machine learning the knowledge, the perception of we drinking the water, gives a context to the upcoming feeling of coldness on our tongue which only then we give it meaning, where as pleasure has already happened or happening alongside the coldness but not caused by it.

The "input" of cold water on our tongue is not enough to give us pleasure, the prior context of thirst is crucially needed for us, not just metaphysically but also cognitively to "gain" the "pleasure". In that sense while seeing and thinking are activites, pleasure accompanies them through the prior context; which while the objective part of it consist of knowledge, the subjective parts consist of pleasure. In this sense there is a nice dicotomy in the fact that in each case there is knowledge and pleasure, universal and particular, what is in each case is and what is particular to us, what is out there and what is in here; activity in each case is what does and undergoes; the big curse of belief that there is anything objective at all out there loses it's importance when you consider while from the inside where subjective exist we call what is outside objective; but form the outside subjective does not exist so without it neither the objective, so there are only things in each case. What good is what we learned to take pleasure from, while we admit degree and the best of these degrees is true "standart"; yet aristotle as many other philosophers fails to give any ground under his speech of "what should human do?", and he simply assumes what in each case they do is what they should do, the good is what is aimed by every other action.

Teleology is the only place we can find any meaning, yet even tough it is unfortunate telos does not even come close to being "existing" in the grand scheme of things, for us tough it certainly exist, as we gain pleasure by things so we can differ what is in ourselves with what is outside. As Camus put's it, we look for meaning where there is not, and even tough there is not we can find it. And that is what it is to be a human. And that is the ground where we can ask, now that there is to be human, how should we be humans. I don't know what is metaphysical if not this.































































