Adding pleasure to an action does not make it "more choice worthy" as we said that we do actions for themselves and not for something else. So we do not do actions to "get pleasure" or at least "getting pleasure" is not what we differ good action from bad action, so adding pleasure to it simply helps us (maybe) "actualize" a potentiality in to an action and not make that action more "choice worthy". The error here stems from the double use of the word "choice worthy". On one hand we use it to imply that a particular action is good and good to act; yet on the one hand we use it to imply that a we prefer to choice an action over another action. Former implies wether that action is a good, and letter simply implies wether we prefer to do that action.

From this than it can and will be said that, isn't the goodness of the action enough to exercise it? Well, this is why we and aristotle gives a special place to pleasure, as he says, "people deliberately choose pleasent things and avoid painful ones". Even tough we do not to actions for the sake of the pleasure it brings, otherwise everything would be for pleasure and pleasure would be the good; pleasure simply encourages us to do these actions where we already deemed them to be a good and pleasure is no different, a good and not the good.




Pleasure is not related to the phronesis itself, they are not "phronesisses/actions" by themselves. They are states, states we necceserily habit by the nature of us itself.
Everything we do nessecerily entails either pleasure or pain, tough some ar eparticular and entails differently to different people, and some are natural where entails the same in each case, or entails to a "healthy person" in each case. Unnatural pleasures stems from deficiency in our nature and natural pleasures. The activities which entails natural plesuares are then the best activities as it is in accord with what a "healty person" would be entailed. Also as aristotle says,  this stems fromt he fact that our nature is not simple, so we can not contemplate constantly, and "actions is always detremental so everytime we act we lose something which it's replenishment grants a particular and unnatural pleasure"(this part is 
contreversal/not sure).

And what we say is even goes deeper, as not only every activty entails a pleasure with itself, living itself is an activity so the human constantly is, constantly "be" in relation to pleasures of every kind potentially.

Since activities differ as good and bad, pleasures also differ in good and bad. 

"PLeasures are the unimpeeded activites of the natural state". More correctly said, "pleasures are actualities where each properly belongs to an activity where in turn it unimpies it's proper activity."



Alien pleasures are essentially pains.



Each proper plesuare stems from one of the 3/4 parts of the soul; any other pleasure that is not accompanied by this can be explained in relation to these; these are the atomic ones; all others can be indirgenmek to these ones. Other pleasures are "perceptions", and This is also in accord with our account of extending the definition of "sensing" or "cognitive inputs" to hormones and other neuron connections.

u

2 kind of pleasures are : ‘remedial pleasures’ (that is, pleasures with
 a lack-replenishment structure, preceded by 
desire)  and  pleasures  which  are  
the  result  of  unimpeded  natu
ral  activities

 But,  in  every  case,  there  is  a  
self-perception  of  perfection  in  which  
the pleasurable experience consists. 





Two conflcting approach:
1) pleasure stems from perception
2) it stem from senses and furhter intelligence.

For example sex, does it stem from the perception that we deemed worthy to have babiews by a cross-gender; or does it stem from the feel of touch and kiss and penis?
In LAndazuri's account he uses these two concepts almost interchangebly, without ever mentionong, nonealone deciding, wether one spawns the other, in the sense that wether we perceive that our thirst has ended by the means of cold water on our tongue; or do we conciously know that we are curently finishing our thirst and the cold water on our tongue only acts as an assurance; as in the case of machine learning the knowledge, the perception of we drinking the water, gives a context to the upcoming feeling of coldness on our tongue which only then we give it meaning, where as pleasure has already happened or happening alongside the coldness but not caused by it.

The "input" of cold water on our tongue is not enough to give us pleasure, the prior context of thirst is crucially needed for us, not just metaphysically but also cognitively to "gain" the "pleasure". In that sense while seeing and thinking are activites, pleasure accompanies them through the prior context; which while the objective part of it consist of knowledge, the subjective parts consist of pleasure. In this sense there is a nice dicotomy in the fact that in each case there is knowledge and pleasure, universal and particular, what is in each case is and what is particular to us, what is out there and what is in here; activity in each case is what does and undergoes; the big curse of belief that there is anything objective at all out there loses it's importance when you consider while from the inside where subjective exist we call what is outside objective; but form the outside subjective does not exist so without it neither the objective, so there are only things in each case. What good is what we learned to take pleasure from, while we admit degree and the best of these degrees is true "standart"; yet aristotle as many other philosophers fails to give any ground under his speech of "what should human do?", and he simply assumes what in each case they do is what they should do, the good is what is aimed by every other action.

Teleology is the only place we can find any meaning, yet even tough it is unfortunate telos does not even come close to being "existing" in the grand scheme of things, for us tough it certainly exist, as we gain pleasure by things so we can differ what is in ourselves with what is outside. As Camus put's it, we look for meaning where there is not, and even tough there is not we can find it. And that is what it is to be a human. And that is the ground where we can ask, now that there is to be human, how should we be humans. I don't know what is metaphysical if not this.


Even tough the activities some pleasures accompany are coming-to-be, pleasures themselves are complete and are ends.
Yet unnatural pleasures are not for themselves so they can not be good, yet natural pleasures are for themselves so they are good.


Each human, where they inhabit different state gains pleasure from different activities. The activity of the hungary person is to eat which he gains pleasure from, and the activity of a healthy person is to contemplate which in turn he gains pleasure from.

It is not true that "happiness is pleasure", but more correct to say that happiness is pleasourus. Pleasouros to the virtous person, or to the natural state at most.

Bodily pleasures admits excess so they are bead when "pleasured excesively". The reason some people choose bodily pleasures among others are, because living is a kind of toil/pain and the immediate pleasure of bodily pleasures, also because the toil stems from our bodily/mortal nature, makes them the first candidate to relieve this pain and this is also why each living person needs bodily pleasures, the life of sensation, and ultimately the virtues related to them. This is why while the contemplation is the best good, phronesis is still good in a secondary sense, it is necceseary for so many reasons.

if pleasure only stems from complete activities like sense and thinking, how can the activity of building or writing may be enjoyable? Two answers:
1)In each case while a process is going on there are activites being done that accompany them, so you enjoy building itself after building it, and you do not enjoy the process of building it but things you do in the process of building it, like melting stones or etc.
2)Pleasure does not stem from the "complete activty" which means complete in form, yet it stems from the "perfect activty" where the activty done is done perfectly. (But if we take this route we should give up the route where only the sense and tought pleasures are atomic)
OR, as said only activities are acocmpanied by pleasure, or only "perfect activites" does and processes does not.
3)gosling & taylor / activity description - process description 

The pleasure from drinking is not replenishment, but we still gain pleasure from replenishment (from perception of it?)(YES!)(perception is the activity, drinking is the process) Activthy of the unimpared part, the senses even when we are thirsty work.

Role of desire is important in distinguishing pleasure (book 7) "The action of the remaining healthy things is surely the same as the activty of the remaining state and nature of 1152b35-6". When you are sick, this activty is the activity of the remaining healthy part. If you don't even know what is sex, ie you have no healthy state or healthy part in you know what is sex or wants sex, you will not be damaged by the lack of sex and therefore will not have pleasure by sex.









Give two man points: 1) distinction between pleasures and 2)the "meaning of complete"
3)difference between energia and kinesis.


https://www.jstor.org/stable/4182310?seq=19#page_scan_tab_contents
IN replenishment theory, it is the perception that determines wether the act is pleasorus. IN aristotle, it is wther the act is impeded or not. If it is unimpeeded, than it there is pleasure going on in mind.

https://www.jstor.org/stable/4182310?seq=19#page_scan_tab_contents
The pleasure can not be the replenishment/process, for replenishment takes place in the body, 
The pleasure can not in the body, so where is it? IN MIND!


explain the shift from "perceived process" to "unimpeded activty"

p66 retoric argument, QUOTE IT

Not that pleasure is the best good, but an happy person takes a lot of pleasure from the best activty, the contemplation.

Duad nature of the good**, pleasure inside and something else outside. the good must be the most complete and nothing is complete without pleasure. And vice versa.

He does not completely leave the perceieved part, it is a precondition to feel pleasours.



 Pleasure, according to aristotle we argue, is simply the observation, and assurance that the activity is unimpeeded!



How can proceses have associated pleasures?


Book 7)

1)Goods are divided in to two, so does pleasures. There are conditionally good pleasures, and natural pleasures.

2) All processes are energia and an end. Yet conditionally good pleasures have something else as end. This is the first conflict.

3) Following b, he turns from pleasure's differentia-genus pair as "perceieved replenishment" to "unimpeeded activity (of the natural state)".

4) The question begs, wether the pleasures themselves as activites are unimpeeded, or the activites which causes them are unimpeeded.

5)The pleasure is the unimpeeded activity of what is left in us from the natural state.

6)Pleasure is a good, and maybe the best good, because happiness is the activity of a state, and it should be unimpeeded to be complete.

7)All animals and humans pursue pleasure, so again it may be the best good.

8)They may pursue different pleasures knowingly, but they must be pursuing the same divine pleasure unknowingly.

9) Bodily pleasures stole the meaning of pleasure.

10) Conditionally good pleasures admits excess so they can be base. Natural pleasures does not and cannot.

11) Nothing is always pleasours to us. Because our nature is not simple.


Book 10:

1) Pleasure is not the best good, it can be make better with addition.

2) Pleasures admit degree, but this is expected.

3) Pleasures are not processes.

4) Some pleasures are pleasorous only to people in certain conditions.

5) Pleasures can not be replenishments as replenishments takes place in body. But then pleasures should take place in mind, which means they must be perceived, but we forgo perception in favor of unimpedness. This creates our second conflict.

6) The standart for pleasure is the excellent person.

7) Pleasures can not be the best good, as some actions are already choiceworthy without it. But we said many times that pleasure is needed for actions to be choice-worthy. And we said they were inseperable, and pleasure plays a very important role in impeeding or unimpeeding the actions. This creates a third conflict.

8) Pleasure completes activites, but we said that activities, ENERGIA, is complete by itself. This creates a fourth conflict.

9) Each pleasures properly belongs to its activity.

10) While the prior point holds, pleasures and their activites are nvertheless different and not the same thing. Yet we took genus of pleasure to be activity. This is the fifth conflict.

11) Continous pleasure can not happen, because contnious activity can not happen.

12) Pleasures can be ranked by the activites they are associated with.

13) The best pleasure is as it is to an excellent person.

14) Contemplation is the best pleasure.



















































