Temperance: How it is a mean, what is the mean. The deficiency and excess. Example for both the extremes and the mean. Examples from litrature or politics.

Temperance is the mean where pleasures are concerned, but not pains, where the pains are there with states of Courage and bravery.

Temperance is concerned with kind of pleasure that;
(1) Pleasure of body
(2) Rest of the animals share as well
(3) Related to perceptual capacities which is the character of animals and not humans.
(4)Those pleasure which peculiar to indiviuals and acquired, rather than shared and come by nature.

So intemperate people are those enjoy things they shouldns, or more than ordinary people, or not in the way they should. And they go excess regarding those things.

Then excess in where the pleasure are concerned is intemperance. For examples they ar emore pained by not getting pleased then ordinary people. 

People who are deficient where pleasures are concerned has no name because they scarcely occur. He is such that to him nothing or so little is pleasent and he does not distinguish between one thing or another, whereas even animals distinguish, for example in food, by enjoying some but not others. Let's call him Abstemious. (Who indulge very little in foods and drinks)

And the people in mean where pleasures are concerned are called temperate; as he does not gain pleasures where the intemperate one gains; and he neither takes pleasures from things he shouldnt nor pains in their absence. They will have pleasure mostly for those things which in his reach, and he will also take pleasure in those things which are in good state or conductive to health.

That being said, not many people are moderate in all ways where pleasure is concerned; where some indulge in different and not so moderate ways to pleasures which by themselves are moderate; like those who seeks fetishes for enjoyment of sex, or those seek chemical drugs in enjoyment of stonhe-adness. Those people than, moderate in their longing for pleasure, can go out of their ways to get those pleasures, and for some their longing may as be moderate as a temperant person. And it is up to debate wether the differences are of habit or are of enabelemnt,tough i would pick the latter, where humans always tend to go where easement to a goal go there, the path of least resistance. 

The pleasure of satisfying a savage instinct, undomesticated by the ego, is uncomparably much more intense than the one of satisfying a tamed instinct. The reason is becoming the enemy that prevents us from a lot of possibilities of pleasure.

And then rephrase aristotle where he says Concerning with pleasures then,  is more voluntary than courage, as they are easier to habitate and therefore, in my own words, closer to kind of animal which humans live as in a civilized society . 

An example of Intemperate person is Charlie Harper from Two and a Half Men, where what he does he does to either gain pleasure or ease him to gain pleasure. For example his profession is not for his enjoyment; but to make easy money to indulg ein more pleasure. He, at most part, loves his neuphew because he is a good opener to meet woman. And he easily manipulates people to ease life for him, and open new ways to pleasures. In real life the actor himself, charlie sheen, is an even more imtemperate person, as he lives with two pornstars in a triplex beach house, and he has aids and cocaine addiction, and a jaguar.

An example of Temperate person is who can stop in indulgement at the point where the indulgement become detremental to his long term goals; by restricting him from the current pleasure, as he does not long for it more than he should and he should always focus on how he is in a life time, like the swallow bird example. On example then is That one guy from that one film where he does cocaine trafficking but he does not use those cocaines, and even beats up his wife's brother for using the cocaine.

An example of Abstemious person is actually Isaac Newton. As he dies a virgin, and accounts made by his maid tells that he would go long times without eating food or any short. And he died a virgin. He is also intemperate because the pleasure of that kind deals with pleasures of body so his indulgement in science does not matter in this definition. 


