ARISTO ODEV 2 NOTLAR:

Book 1:
While plato would first start from "the good" or the form of the good, aristo requires precision only up to a point and starts from happiness. So we are not looking for what is in all the goods, but rather up to what all goods are goods. 
So in this sense, aristotle's athis is practical.

The human good, aristo says, is the end for what all other activities are for. So in this sense, aristotle's human good is a practical target, in contrast with plato's reference to good itself. For aristo, that human good is happiness, or "eudomenia".

So what is this happyness?
TANIM: Happiness is the activity of the soul in accord with virtue. If many the most complete of them. It also takes a life time.

Also, if happiness is virtue, then it must not be just being potentially virtous, but also actually "being at work" as human. (If happiness is virtue, or a certain virtue, then it must not just be a condition of being virtuous, potentially, but an actual way of virtuously "being at work" as a human. )

When the parts of the souls are considered, the vegetative part does not have any virute as it is absent of acting. The animalistic part obeys the rational part so has it's own virtues which are called MORAL virtues. And then for the rational part there are intellectual virtues. Moral virtues take part in reason(book 2). Intellectual virtues are at book 6(is it for the both rational parts of the soul or only the practical one?).

Book 2:

intellectual virtue: teaching
moral virtue: habit

For an action to be virtous, one needs to take pleasure from performing this action and also should choose to do that action deliberately.

 According to Aristotle's analysis, three kinds of things come to be present in the soul(animalistic soul) that virtue is: a feeling (pathos), an inborn predisposition or capacity (dunamis), or a stable disposition that has been acquired (hexis). The virtue is concerned with hexis among these ie. from what state we do the actions(or is it?)

In practice Aristotle explains that people tend more by nature towards pleasures, and therefore see virtues as being relatively closer to the less obviously pleasant extremes. While every case can be different, given the difficulty of getting the mean perfectly right it is indeed often most important to guard against going the pleasant and easy way.[42] However this rule of thumb is shown in later parts of the Ethics to apply mainly to some bodily pleasures, and is shown to be wrong as an accurate general rule in Book X.

Book 3 chapter1-5:

Here aristotle divides actions in to three categories: voluntary, involuntary, nonvoluntary.

voluntary: obvious.
involuntary: like wind blowing the man off, or when the man does now have the knowledge. Tough acting "in ignorance" and "because of ignorance" are different( in what way? check from the book!)
nonvoluntary: difficult to decide weither praise or blameworthy. It is when bad things done by choice. these actions usually taken because other options are worse.

More terms are defined here:



    Deliberate choice (proairesis), "seems to determine one's character more than one's actions do". Things done on the spur of the moment, and things done by animals and children can be willing, but driven by desire and spirit and not what we would normally call true choice. Choice is rational, and according to the understanding of Aristotle, choice can be in opposition to desire. Choice is also not wishing for things one does not believe can be achieved, such as immortality, but rather always concerning realistic aims. Choice is also not simply to do with opinion, because our choices make us the type of person we are, and are not simply true or false. What distinguishes choice is that before a choice is made there is a rational deliberation or thinking things through.[44]

D.C : choice is not done by deisre nor spirit, is not done on the spur of a moment, it is not wishing(as it is realistic). They are taken by rational deliberation.

    Deliberation (bouleusis), at least for sane people, does not include theoretical contemplation about universal and everlasting things, nor about things that might be far away, nor about things we can know precisely, such as letters. "We deliberate about things that are up to us and are matters of action" and concerning things where it is unclear how they will turn out. Deliberation is therefore not how we reason about ends we pursue, health for example, but how we think through the ways we can try to achieve them. Choice then is decided by both desire and deliberation.[45]

Deliberation: deciding/discussion/irdeleyici/müzakere about  things that are up to us and unclear how will turn out. It is not about the end, but about how we achieve them.

    Wishing (boulēsis) is not deliberation. We cannot say that what people wish for is good by definition, and although we could say that what is wished for is always what appears good, this will still be very variable. Most importantly we could say that a worthy (spoudaios) man will wish for what is "truly" good. Most people are misled by pleasure, "for it seems to them to be a good, though it is not".[46]

wishing: it is not deliberation. we wish about what we think is good. But we also wish about things that are unrealistic.

VICES are also up to us. vice comes from not aiming unhapiness, but acting from (1)bad habits, (2) aiming at wrong things and (3) bad habits.

so involuntary(or voluntary? which one?) actions sometimes may be up to us, as when we are drunk, not while drunk but the cause of drunkess comes from us.

so vices are also voluntary and deliberately choosen(they are discussed on about before being performed),just as virtues.

book 3:rest:

Tanıtmak some specific character virtues. He incelemek them in concerned with, mean, excess and deficiency. (wikipedia thouse source for the method.)
Courage and temperance.

Book 4:
A second set of examples of moral virtues. Starts with giving and Magnificy(greatness of soul).

Book 5:
justice and fairness.

justice:
Two types, justice as law abiding citizen, and justice as fair man. Good citizen is not same with good man. All lawness are unjust, but not all unjust are lawless.
Justice as like a complete ethical virtue, Just person does not just have justice, but also gives/exercises jusstice.

extra not: it should matter when bad things are done by injustice or other vices.

Book 6: Intellectual virtues.

justice> other moral virtues. But we defined other virtues as means. So we need knowledge to recognize the "cross hair" of the mean. And so practical ethics requires knowledge. So far we were dealing with one part of the soul, know we deal with the rational part. 

Know we talk about intellectual virtues. Rational part of the soul divides in two, the one contemplate about invariable CAUSES. And the one contemplate about variable things, this is the also the part we deliberate about ACTIONS.

There are 5 states(hexis) the soul can have, helping understanding/seeing/disclosing the truth.

1)art(techne):

2)Knowledge)episteme):

3)Practical judgement (phronesis):

4)Wisdom(sophia): "Knowledge with it's head on."

5)Intellect(nous):


in chapters 12-13, aristo discusses and compares the importance of intellect and phronesis. Thales for example has wisdom but lacks phronesis and pericles vice versa. There is "dependency of sophia upon phresis"(what this means, which one depends on which?). " The dependency of sophia upon phronesis is described as being like the dependency of health upon medical knowledge. Wisdom is aimed at for its own sake, like health, being a component of that most complete virtue that makes happiness." Medical knowledge is needed for health -> phronesis is needed for sophia. Sooo, which is higher or rules on the other, sophia or phronesis???

In virtue of the highest form, all exists together (since these are all the work of human?).


extra notlar: "He uses the word imperfect to describe something that is pure potential or partially actualized, and something that is fully actualized he calls perfect.". So a "perfect" or "full virtue" is the fully actualized virtue.

"happiness is an actualization of the proper function of man"

"what comes first in knowing comes last in being, and vice versa"

"differentia specifica 
of the human being. Neither simplyexhibiting a life of nutrition, nor just a life of sensation, the human being is theonly creature able to truly
act"

Sight, hearing, andall the senses are got by naturee.

The ultimateend point is not a static position but itself an activity which confirms the verycompleteness of one’s character in all one’s actions.

moral virtues are the end points, intellectual virtues are how we achieve them.

Truthful action is a result of choicefused with reason. But which kind of reason? There are five ways that therational soul discloses truth for Aristotle,

n otherswords, practical judgment actualizes the capacity to actualize one’s ethicalcapacities in harmony.

 Practical judgment and ethical virtuerealize the best possible life of man, for in their very activity, they confirm the
actuality 
of man.
24
This actuality is
eudaimonia 
, the complete unity of rationalthought and ethical action







if(isLeaf(this)){
	this->height = 0;
}

this->height = max( getHeight(left), getHeight(right)) +1 



















































































