(1) According to aristotle, things that are doable are of three: inquiry (contemplation), craft and action. And each of these will aim at some good, which is also the end of that particular doable, like victory in generalship and tables in carpentry, truth in contemplation and justice in just actions. Yet by the law of noncontradiction, each end will either be for itself or not, a means to something else. And, as far as the book I is concerned only actions can be said to be for themselfs (contemplation will be discussed as such only at book X). Now, since if no thing doable is for itself the things we do things for will go ad infinitum and all things doable will be meaningless, so there must be some ends which all ends are ultimately is for, let's call this the good, or the best good. So in this account, the good will be the most complete of suchs goods which are for themselves, if there are many. So the good which is chosen for its own sake rather than as means to an end is the highest good.

Eudomenia, Aristotle notices, is the best candiate for such the good,  which was an already well established concept in the time of Aristotle, and this is where our discussion starts. So up until this point we showed the neccesity of such concept as the best good empirically speaking  and deemed it to be Eudomenia, which is the end of what is doable in action. It must also be self-sufficient because otherwise it could have been made better by super-imposing something else; which then would mean it lacks by itself which the best good does not; it lacks nothing and is the most complete. 

Now, as Aquinas said, we have the first thing in knowing so it should also be the last thing in being. As far as the Nichomecian Ethics is concerned, Eudomenia belongs to the category of doing, which then is a second actuality. But what it is then? 

Eudomenia's is as we said a kind of good, the best good in fact, and goods are of three sort; those of body, those of soul and those external. As in accord with Exoda then, Eudomenia is the good in soul as it is the highest good,and obivously we are talking about the human soul. So Eudomenia is related to the excellence of the soul, or the virtue of the soul. But then the question beg, is it a state of the soul or an action; and what kind of state or the action?

Since it is not enough for our souls to be excellent but we also need to excersice this excellende, it is most appropriate to say that Eudomania is an action of the soul, and it must be the kind of action which our soul is for and the excellent one of that at that. Without going in to the detail of the well known inferrence that the excellence or the virtue of human soul is to reason, we can finally state that:

1) The Genus of Eudomenia is action.
2) It is also the best good concerning what is doable in action.
3) It is good of the soul as good of the soul is the best of the goods.
3) It's differentia is then excellence or virtue of the human soul.
4) The virtue of the human soul is reason.
5) Therefore, the Eudomenia is an activty of the soul in accord with reason.

So we have then what is second in knowing, the virtue, or more correctly the human virtue related to it's soul. 

Virtue is also from the end and concerning Eudomenia is a second potentialty; it is as we will see a state of the soul which from that state helps us to achieve virtous action; which trough a life time amounts to Eudomenia.

Yet form the beggining and concerning human soul, it is a first actuality. It belongs to the category of quality, and as such it is a kind of good in quality, or from quality. Even tough there exist other goods in other cothegories, like God and reason from substance and moderation in quantity; ethics is concerned with the good in quality as we have seen it is this category that helps us achieve Eudomenia.

All being said, let's finally clarify the first potentialty concerning virtue. According to aristotle, we have by our form, which is of substance, the first potentialty to be virtous. Where this comes from is probably discussion is one of his other books, but given the precision required by the subject matter, it is enough that we have saved Exoda and shown it's truth.

We also cut the discussion of virtue and parts of the soul short as these are also will be explained in the third question's answer.


(2)

According to Aristotle, the moral virtuos are gained by Ethos, or habitation. The intellectual virtues on the other hand are tought and learned, so they are mostly result of teaching. And we are by the capacity of our soul, or our form, are naturally receptive to them, so we have the first potentialty to learn them by our substance, the form/matter composite. Let us note that the division between moral and intellectual virtues will be eloborated in the next question.

Even tough the above statement actually fully answers the question, let's eloborate 3 additional points for the sake of eloboration.

1)The fact that virtues does not come to us, or actualize, by nature, also evident in that for the things that provided to us by nature we acquire the first actuality naturally and immediately, as in the case of sight that we can be able to see (first actuality) by the merit of our eyes (first potentialty) and without any delibiration, learning or habitation. Such is not the case for virtues, as no man is said to be born good or base by itself.

2)So concerning the moral virtues than, we become just by doing just acts, and temperate by doing temperate acts. In other words we actualize our potentialty to be virtous by doing virtous acts and it is also tru for the contrary that virtue is also ruined by the same process; doing vice acts. So just like in crafts, since a lyre player assuming she has a potentialty to become a good lyre player; will either be a good or a bad lyre player by playing the lyre. Then when such actions become habitual, they determine the fixed state (hexis) of the person in question. That, according to Aristotle, determines an indiviual's identity and the hexis is the Genus of the virtue afterall.

And actually the last statemnt was up to debate, about whether a person having capacity to play good lyre can actualize her capacity either way or is she bound to play the lyre good. And we will argue that potentialities which does not actualize by nature will always be able to actualize in two contrary ways and potentialities which actualize by nature is bound to actualize only in one specific way. Maybe Aristotle would categorize these two different types of potentialities as those who have it's cause not in itself and those who have it's cause in itself, but it is enough what have said so far. Just maybe.

3)One last topic that can be disgussed is the well known dilemma that, how can we habitate to be just be doing just acts if we are not just at the initial step. Aha, maybe not Aristotle but we would say having read book VI, all virtues are instances of one complete virtue anyway, and at it's root found by practical wisdom which then it's knowledge is found by Nous, which is a state concerning the intellectual virtues, which then the intellectual virtous can be learned. So we by our human capacity can inhabit states, and by Nous we can learn to recognize and hit the mean of these states, therefore do virtous act. But that is only our opinion.

But there is an even simpler way the Aristotle proposes to solve the dilemma. While for arts the success of it is in the outcome and such outcome can be produced either by luck or on someone else's instruction, for actions the success is also determined by the state which from it we do the actions. So while for both crafts and virtue the success is in the state of the outcome; for virtue it is also important that the doer of the virtue (1) does it knowingly, (2) chooice it for itself and (3) does it from an unchangable state. 

Hence, while it is not possible to possess virtiue in order to become virtous, one can and must cultivate the actions appropriate to virtue as a part of the process to become genuienly virtous. The key point here is that it is not the action or the outcome itself that deems the act virtous, it is the state from which the action is done, so "possessing virtue" does not mean "being able to do just acts" but it means "being able to do just acts from a particular state". So the problem of "we need to have virtue to practice virtue" is non-problem, as acting by itself does not constitue "having virteu", having virtue is something else, so you still can act justly without needing to be a virtous person. In short the apperant dilemma arise from a wrong definition of being virtous.

All being said about it, and hopefully Meno had it's answer, let's move to the final question.



(3) Aristotle first begins by, as was said, distinguishing the parts of the soul as vegitative, sensitive and rational (which later he also divides the rational part to two too). Of these parts, vegitative part's virtue is "shared and not distinctively human". Even tough this wording make it seem like this part also has its own excellence and therefor virtue, from a broader sense it can be said that since this part does not act it can not have any effect on the human virtue.

Of the other two parts, the sensitive part does not inherently produce reason, buy is guided by the part that has reason, or obey it. Therefore since "partaking in actions" can be said about these two parts of the soul, and because virtue as we said is the actualization of human soul or form, it is only natural for there to be two kinds of virtue; the "moral virtues" which belongs to sensitive part of the soul, and the "intellectual virtues" which belongs to the rational part of the soul. In the text, however, Aristotle primarily reach this division empiritacly rather then theorotically as we did, when he distinguishes virtues as others talk about them, much like his use of Endoxa.

Then a moral virtue is the virtue of the sensitive part of the soul. The Genus of the moral virtues is to be one of the things that come about in the soul, and Aristotle offers three candidates for it; (1) the feelings, like anger and envy, which are things that entails pleasure and pain, which makes sense as the sensitive part of the soul -in the absence of the "orders" of the rational part of the soul- moves by them, (2) capacities which is by them we are suspectible how much to those feelings and (3) states which defines in what ways we deal with or feel those feelings, or in what kind of relations these feelings are actualized in our souls and by extension in our actions.

After dismissing the feelings and capacities in grounds that we are not blamed or praised for them and some other agruments, Aristotle finally identifies the states as was talked about as the Genus of moral virtues.

The Differentia of the virtue then -in other words what sort of state it is- is it's tendency to move towards the mean state of the thing it constitues. Aristotle argues that of all the possible states we may be in in-relation to our soul, the mean of them is the virtous state. And this state should be found by deliberation and voluntarily, or in other words actions should be done as a virtous person would do, as a person who is at the "correct mean" would do. The semi mis-used word "correct mean" will be clarified below.

So summing up, ethical virtue is a deliberately reached disposition that is of character of attaining a certain kind of mean.

As with most of the book, the justification of this choice as Differentia  is only given after the choice for it is already made. But still, by the definition of what a state is, we can identify that the word "relation" we used in the definition (which he also uses in the text) implies the possibilty for that relation to be either excessive (as when we get affected or by it's extension act excessively when we are angry) or deficient. And whereever there are exsesiveness and deficiency, there must be a mean. 

Then we can look in what place virtue should stand on the spectrum from deficient to excess, and as Aristotle does, it is not hard to select mean as differentia, yet a kind of mean which both a mean in relation to itself and also in relation to us. Let's try to clarify in what exact way this mean is a mean.

While for the simples sense it implies the arithmetic mean as in mathematics, and this is correct to say as the mean will be at distance from both the excess and the deficient; this is not always true as in the example of how much meat to eat, and it is evident that this amount will be different for Milo and some other person. Then we should both look at the mathematical mean and the mean relative to our current disposition.  Tough when we move to the world of linguistics, the former is not appears as precise as in mathmatics.For the latter, for someone with responsibilities or Pericles the mean for courage stands closer to rashness and for someone in middle of a burglary it is closer to cowardness and this constitues the mean in relation to us; the mean in relation to itself will be evident by taking the negation of the word we use for the particular mean and seeing which of the extremes this negation stand farther. For example the negation of the word courage is coward, so it is evident by this in relation to itself the mean for courage stands farther to cowardness and closer to rashness.

Let us finish the discussion with saying that the mean is not only in the amount, as how much we a particular amount of anger affects us, but also in to who we feel anger, when we feel anger, for what we feel anger and all other determinants of such disposition.

As the definition of a character virtue is finally given, let us now give an example of it. Let's discuess and try to find a virtue that is not present in Necomichean ethics and try to find what can be said about virtue related to ambition. Since the writer is mainly a student of not contemplation but the methodology called engineering, and a lot of work is needed to be a good student of it, and having ambition for it is one of the good enablers to work better and work more; let's talk about it.

Since one may be ambitious about many things, let's limit ourself with the ambition related to working and studying; and set aside the fact that some people mistakenly work or study for things which is not an end in itself as these are not the subject of our investigation.

So there seems to be a virtue related to ambition. Ambition seems to be the medial condition concerned with a longing for success or achievement which causes people to work and study. Since the work for the sake of contemplation seems to be related to wisdom and intellectual virtues, we are interested in ambition from a character perspective. 

A desire for more achievement than one is capable may lead to avidity and cause the person to act mistakenly and miscalculate his actual success; both in terms of self evaluation and also in terms of  weighing his place in the society.

It is also true that too little longing for achievement will lead to lazyness and sluggishness, as those people will stop contributing to society in terms of work and will be blamed for their lazyness, and they will also be lost in terms of what needs to be done for any work or study related matter because they lack ambition to hit the right targets on those matters.

So the right amount of ambition will cause people to (1) always look out for new targets to hit while studying and working, (2) they will contribute to themselfs and by extension to society, (3) they will weight their posiiton in society and rightly strive towards taking natural pleasure on their achievements which shows that we are on the right track as virtous acts was already said to be related to natural pleasure, and (4) they will rightly calculate their current success and will again be able to determine what needs to be done in terms of work and study more correctly. Let's call this right amount of ambition "proper ambition".

So "proper ambition" seems to be a virtue related to success and achievement, with it's deficiency is lazyness and it's excess is avidity.

Finally let's find where this mean stands. In relation to itself, if we take the negation of "proper ambition" we can see that the negation stands closer to lazyness. So the mean concerning achievement is closer to avidity. In relation to us, it stands somewhere little different for each person, but we can see that the natural tendency related to longing for achievement in DasMan is lazyness. So the final verdict is the mean in this case is closer to excess, much like in the case of courage.






















  








SORU: good dediği herşeyin goodumu yoksa sadece actionın goodu mu?
